# Video-Game-Sales-Prediction
With the video game industry being one of the markets that grows constantly as technology keeps improving, we were interested to see how much effect public perception has on the sales.
The main focus of this project was to see how public comments over social media along withdetails of a video game's release can help in predicting the sales of said game.
Prior academic research addresses the problem similarly to the approach in this paper, however; they choose to focus on other data sources about search trends or hardware requirements to run the game on a PC. In all cases, regression analysis is used to undergo the prediction process.
In our case, we explored sentiment analysis and text-feature extraction, a process applied to many topics of interest.

We conducted a detailed analysis on video game sales using a combination of datasets from IGDB and VGChartz. 
In terms of public perception we scraped all the comments mentioning the games on Reddit, a popular social media platform, in our datasets using python script. 
The IGDB dataset has more than 20 features for each game, including platform, genres, publisher, developer, year, player review, and etc. It is established by Twitch to provide game data services to the public. It also has a higher completeness level than other data sources, as it includes data for more than 100 million games.
We joined the IGDB dataset with another dataset we found through the VGChartz website as the IGDB dataset doesn't have the sales volume data for the games. We combined our data with another dataset found on Kaggle that combined VGChatz and MetaCritics ratings data (updated to 2017, our webscrape is updated to present day), which has about 60,000 sample data with the sales volumes.

We chose to join the two static datasets by a combination of game name and platform. After joining the two static datasets, we get a table with slightly less than 60,000 samples since we dropped those games that are not present in the IGDB dataset. Afterwards, we dropped games that have less than 0.1 million sales volumes so it wouldn't add a significant bias to our model, as well as any rows with null values. We had to aggregate some of the features in our combined dataset before we started building our model. First, we chose to rescale our dataset by using log base 2 since the sales volume was skewed to the right. For categorical features such as genres and platforms, we had to digitize them to discrete numbers and flatten them since they were not in first normal form. We used a SuperVectorizer function from the dirty_cat package to vectorize the discrete features instead of manually labeling them by pure numbers. This vectorizer performs some NLP processes similar to Word2Vec and automatically chooses the best vectorizing method, if not OneHot to digitize the data. (Not in response to comments). In terms of the release date feature, we changed it to where it displays Year, Month, Day in order.

We found that gradient boosting regressor turned out to be the best performing models for us both before and after the inclusion of social media sentiment information.

Result: Utilizing a 5-fold-cross-validation on the data, our neural network produced a mean absolute error score (MAE) of 0.7286. This statistic implies that on average, our predictions are off by (20.7286  - 1)% (raising by 2 because our data is in log2) of our sample average sales volume which equates to 65.70%. This result is much higher than the previous model built without the social media data.

Interpretation: Applying the percentage above to our sample average, our MAE score implies that, on average, our model mispredicts our data by about 0.47 million sales. In terms of revenue, for every dollar that a game is worth, the model mispredicts that revenue by $4,198,400, which, for most companies that dollar amount alone could surmount to their business succeeding or failing.

Most triple A game titles are worth $60. At that price point, our model mispredicts on average about $251,913,000 worth of revenue. Similar to the conclusion we made about the non-social media data-based model, errors at this scale are not fit to use in real world sales forecasting.
The prediction vs. true values graph shows that this new model is still predicting the big trend of the overall sales volume distribution as it does give higher prediction values for the games with higher true values. However, the prediction still deviates from the real sales volumes by a significant amount as both this plot and the error distribution plot have shown, implying that the model is unable to find a more useful feature to further refine the prediction in a more precise level.
